Publish article about the horizontal migration (#1020)
PrestaShop/prestashop.github.io: news/_posts/2022-07-01-introducing-horizontal-migration.md

Migrating a page this way is slow and requires a considerable effort. It basically amounts to building the page again – a _better_ version of it. With several dozen modified files, refactoring a typical page takes several weeks of development, and months of review and refinement. There are still 50 pages left to migrate in the Back office. That's _years'_ worth of work! 

In the meantime, PrestaShop's architecture has become heterogeneous. Although the pages migrated to Symfony benefit from all the modern concepts built over the years, a third of the Back office pages remain largely identical to how they were in PrestaShop 1.6 – not to mention the whole Front office and the Webservice API. 

This means that developers have to deal with some parts of the software working in a certain way and others in a completely different one. As we have mentioned in previous articles, this is bad because having more than one way of doing the same thing carries a higher risk of bugs, lower performance, more maintenance work, and a steeper learning curve for people who are new to the platform.

> Moreover, every bit of the legacy framework must be preserved until the migration has been fully completed. Even if in a few years only a single page that few people use was left to migrate, everything it relies on, Dispatcher, ObjectModel, Smarty, Helpers... the entire legacy stack must remain in place, alive and maintained.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moreover, all parts of the legacy framework must be preserved until the migration is fully completed. In a few years, a single page with few users is left to migrate, with many dependencies, such as Dispatcher, ObjectModel, Smarty, Helpers: this page could have an impact on the migration's health. Therefore, the entire legacy stack must remain in place, alive and maintained.
```

## What's next?

We think the horizontal approach provides two clear benefits compared to our current approach:
- A quicker reduction of the system's overall complexity, because legacy components can be sunset as soon as they are no longer needed, instead of having to wait until the end of the migration to do so.
- A more gentle learning curve for PrestaShop developers not used to Symfony, who will be able to use HelperList and HelperForm in Symfony controllers.

The main downside of the horizontal approach is that lists and forms need to be migrated twice: once with helpers, then again using the newer components. However, we think its benefits are worth the effort.

The horizontal approach has been [recently approved](https://github.com/PrestaShop/ADR/pull/26) by maintainers, as well as the [first example of a listing page migrated using HelperList](https://github.com/PrestaShop/PrestaShop/pull/27246). This means that this should be the main approach to migration from now on.

> The vertical approach is not dead though: it might still be used in pages where the horizontal one would not make tactical sense, either because they are too simple to benefit from the advantages of horizontal migration, or because they require extensive refactoring (e.g. the product page).

Reviewer: Yes this version works for me, great if you could find another word than "dead", if this makes sense technically ;)? Thanks
